[Music]
did the Megalodon evolve into the great
white a huge whale eating shark the size
of a semi-truck and with teeth that were
bigger than most people's hand dominated
the oceans millions of years ago this
shark was called Megalodon and it's
evolution has been the topic of heated
debate among scientists for over 150
years until recently a lot of
paleontologists were sure that one of
the most ferocious marine predators of
our time the great white shark descended
from the mighty Megalodon well
recent findings are bringing this
long-held belief in the question before
you find out the truth about the real
connection between the Meg and the great
white don't forget that we have tons of
exciting and informative videos like
this one coming out every single day so
join the bright side of life by clicking
that subscribe button and ring the
notification bell so that you don't miss
a thing all right now the age-old
question that's been tormenting experts
for centuries do these two sea predators
share the same family line let's start
from the beginning
in October 1966 Danish anatomists nyle
Stenson received a package containing
the head of a great white shark
imagine the male person who had the
deliver that thing Stenson had just
started his career but despite his
little experience
he was extremely talented at dissection
when he was examining all the Sharks
numerous teeth he noticed they were
strikingly similar to Galasso Petric
also known as tongue stones these were
basically inexplicable pieces of rock in
a triangular shape that were found on
land in different locations however
until then nobody had been able to
understand their origin some theories
stated that these unusual rocks fell
from the sky at night while others
believed them to be snake teeth that st.
Paul had turned into stone
but Stenson's discovery provided
convincing evidence that Galasso Petra
were in fact fossilized shark teeth and
since some of these rocks were about 7
inches long this was a somewhat
unsettling discovery after all they were
much bigger than any great whites teeth
which were rarely more than two and a
half inches long despite the size
difference their shapes were pretty
similar
this fact made scientists come to the
conclusion that the great white shark
evolved from some ancient super-sized
shark aka the Megalodon even today some
paleontologists stick to this theory the
problem was in difficulties that
researchers had every time they tried to
reconstruct prehistoric sharks the thing
is that a shark skeleton is made of
cartilage which tends to decompose much
faster than bone that's why over the
years scientists have only managed to
gather just a few vertebrae of a
fossilized Megalodon as a result they
have to build all their theories upon
the shark's teeth which preserve better
since they're made of bone and because
sharks regularly shed their teeth
researchers have managed to acquire
quite a few fossilized Megalodon teeth
with all these examples that showed
striking similarities between the
ancient shark and the modern great white
like their shape structure and saw-like
edges it seemed only natural to assume
that the more recent species descended
from the older one as for the Megalodon
it was the largest predator that's ever
lived on this planet it could get up to
60 feet long which is about the size of
a semi it could weigh over 70 tons to
put that into perspective that's the
combined weight of about 10 elephants
now the sperm whale that we have
nowadays might be longer than the
Megalodon
but the ancient shark was heavier and if
we speak about the great white it only
gets about 23 feet long and usually
weighs no more than three and a half
tons yeah it's still big compared to us
humans but tiny in comparison to its
presumed ancestor the Megalodon was 20
times heavier and three times longer
than the great white shark just imagine
that thing in the water
[Applause]
of course the giant needed a lot of food
to fuel two massive body researchers
estimate that a full-grown Megalodon
probably consumed about a ton of food
every day and it had a particular taste
for whales did you catch that we're
talking about a shark so massive that it
ate whales but this creatures large size
an equally large appetite was a result
of evolution it all started with the
megalodons ancestors which hunted marine
creatures that were predecessors of
modern-day whales fossil evidence
provides enough proof of this fact with
time whales were bigger and new species
appeared sharks were diversifying as
well all this led to the following
evolutionary chain of prehistoric sharks
that resulted in the appearance of the
mighty species gar careless Megalodon
great great great grandpappy Odin is so
bleakest
lived sixty-five million years ago car
careless at SU atticus then appeared 59
million years ago it was followed by car
careless Eric Alanis 54 million years
ago
this shark later evolved into car
careless and gusted ins about 33 million
years ago
approximately 22 million years ago car
careless chubu tensest came into the
picture and finally 16 million years ago
good old car careless megalodon
eventually made its way into the world
evolution is a fascinating thing isn't
it
these sharks just kept getting bigger
and bigger until we ended up with a
60-foot long whale eating monster with 7
inch long teeth these giant teeth had
evolved from ones that help their bearer
consume bite sized prey to those that
could tear huge creatures into pieces
plus the Megalodon had approximately 280
of these ginormous teeth arranged in
five rows lost teeth were typically
replaced within two days max and all
those teeth came down on the shark's
prey with incredible force in fact the
Megalodon had the most powerful bite
known to humankind according to computer
models this super shark had 24,000 to
40,000 pounds of bite force that's ten
times more powerful than the bite of a
great white or even the modern crocodile
it's even two to three times stronger
than the bite force of the feared t-rex
fossilized Megalodon teeth have been
discovered in different regions of the
world from North and South America all
the way to Australia New Zealand and
Japan this means that this predator
lived almost everywhere on earth at the
same time the Sharks seem to prefer warm
waters where there were plenty of food
sources the Megalodon went extinct about
2.6 million years ago
unfortunately they most likely
represented the final link of the
evolutionary chain of this particular
species of giant sharks in November 2012
scientists discovered new shark fossils
in South America these remains included
a complete jaw with teeth and several
vertebrae the teeth of this new shark
were sawed like but they weren't as
sharp as those of the great white or
Megalodon they were somewhere between
the smooth teeth of the fish eating mako
shark and the jagged and sharp ones of
the great white which are suitable for
munching bigger animals according to the
most recent study based on these remains
great whites are by no means descendants
of the Megalodon after specialists
analyzed the fossils they came to the
conclusion that great whites had more in
common with mako sharks both species
were likely to have branched off from
the now extinct broad tooth to mako
approximately 5 million years ago
according to the analysis these two
species have a lot in common as far as
teeth are concerned the root and tooth
structure are pretty similar and they
have an almost identical trajectory of
growth that's how teeth change in shape
and size during a shark's life on top of
that and examination involving a
high-resolution electron microscope
discovered that the great whites teeth
have a significantly different shape and
serration spacing from those of the
Megalodon the great white has much
sharper cutting tools than the
prehistoric shark
both of these shark's teeth are sort of
oval shaped but according to experts
this is the result of convergent
evolution this means that the teeth
evolved independently but
ended up with a similar form because the
functions they fulfilled were alike but
the Megalodon teeth are a lot thicker
and the serrations are much more regular
and less pronounced the roots of the
teeth are v-shape the teeth of the great
white on the other hand are slimmer
sharper and have a rectangular shaped
roof the last argument scientists
provide to prove that the Megalodon and
great white shark aren't related is the
fact that these species coexisted for
about 10 million years
but while the Meg preferred warm regions
great whites lived in the cool waters of
the northern Atlantic they quite
understandably avoided warm areas
dominated by the mighty Megalodon these
facts made paleontologists doubt that
these two species share the same genus
or even the same family but they both do
share our utmost fascination and
curiosity what theory do you believe in
tell us in the comments below if you
learn something new and interesting from
this video then give it a like and share
it with your friends remember to
subscribe to this channel because life
is more exciting on the bright side